July 26, 2021

To whom it may concern:
I am interested in the Front-end Developer position at your organization because I feel that my skills and interests align with the person you are looking for. I love to code, to be challenged, and to create great User-experiences (UX). I have 10+ years of experience working on the front-end and back-end, with a focus on front-end technologies. In my past jobs, I have taken ideas and built great products because I care about the customer’s end-goals. I want to build awareness by unleashing collaboration through technology and connecting them to a global audience.  

While working at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) as both a Contractor and Government Civilian, I have created products that focused on branding, visual experiences, and business analytics. I have worked on teams and projects that were innovative and were incorporated into apps that supported the customers’ goals. 
I graduated with a B.F.A. in Graphic Design in 1995, and that was the start of my love for UX. Since then, I had obtained my B.S. in Computer Science in 2019 to further enhance my abilities to design user-friendly interfaces while also creating products that visualize data to address customers’ specific business analytic questions. I believe that a deeper understanding of the data and the analysis of this same data can have a powerful impact and help our clients to connect to a wider global audience.  

I love to code to such a degree that while working on my B.S., I also updated my website with different data visualizations. My most recent projects in data visualization (http://trangdoanlam.com/data-binding/) included an Animal Crossing Dashboard created in React (http://trangdoanlam.com/portfolio/animalcrossing/build/). I have also used JavaScript (JS) and JS libraries such as D3.js, HighCharts.js, and other resources to visualize data to improve brand recognition and to facilitate customers’ User-experiences. I have worked with website methodologies and frameworks, and I have written clean code that is testable and maintainable. I have worked on teams that conducted code reviews to ensure code quality and consistency.

While at NGA, I worked on products that were designed for both the public and for various Intelligence Community (IC) and Department of Defense (DOD) agencies, which were customers of NGA. Besides coding the products, I also designed the visual aesthetics of the products that incorporated clean and user-friendly designs. Since 1995, when I acquired my B.F.A. in Graphic Design, I have realized that beautiful User-interfaces (UIs) are integral to the customers’ experiences. I do care about the entire product and not just the code because I started out as a Designer. I later became a programmer because I wanted to create great user-experiences for the customers. I have an eye for great design, and I keep the design in mind from beginning to end when coding a project. 

I am hungry to grow and enjoy meeting new challenges. I like learning new technologies, and I want to work with a team that also enjoys this same experience. I have been a part of teams that collaborate and support each other, teaching each other how to solve IT issues. I have mentored junior colleagues and have been mentored by seniors; my hope is to be part of a team that helps and supports each other through knowledge sharing. While I have only been at my current employer for a few months, I now realize that I miss the work in Data Visualization. My end-goal is to eventually find an organization that aligns with these interests while also valuing my skill and 10+ years of experience in providing solutions for customers who needed Visualization of their Big Data. Due to the diversity of work with Big Data and numerous customers, I feel that I can balance many concerns and manage my time wisely to meet deadlines and customers’ needs. 

Throughout my career, I have demonstrated an ability to develop myself professionally, apply what I have learned, and contribute to my employer’s success. My goal is to continue to perform high-quality work by developing my education and skills set and providing excellent support to my colleagues and customers. I feel that my past experiences would make me a good fit for your organization.

Thank you for your time and consideration of my application for your firm. I look forward to hearing from you at your convenience. 

Sincerely,

Trang Lam Schraml
