September 16, 2021

To whom it may concern:

I am interested in the Data Analyst position at Planet because I feel that my skills and interests align with the person you are looking for. I love to code, to be challenged, and to create innovative and working IT solutions including mapping tools and data visualizations. I have 13+ years of experience working to make data visible, accessible, and actionable. In my past jobs, I have worked with customers to understand their end-goals, and I want to help customers understand their data through visualized location data and mapping tools.

While working at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) as both a Contractor and Government Civilian for 9+ years, I have worked on diverse projects involving global events using maps, Geospatial APIs, mapping tools from Esri, Mapbox, Google, QGIS, Planet, and datasets that visualized data location. My work on the Research team consisted of using tools from Planet in order to analyze the requirements, to explore specific tools [and imagery] to evaluate if Planet’s resources could meet specific NGA end-goals, and to work towards integrating Planet’s imagery with other available resources and tools. I have worked cross-functionally and understand business requirements and can translate them to create visuals and dynamic reporting applications. I have collaborated with senior stakeholders from diverse offices at NGA, working to understand business issues and to formulate the right questions in order to evaluate and interpret the data. 

My experience includes, but is not limited to, creating data visualizations and dashboards by extraction, transformation and loading of data (ETL), analyzing datasets and requirements, designing and developing IT solutions, and delivering working products in a timely manner. Having worked in the Analysis Office of NGA, I have used the analytical approach to develop strong hypotheses, design experiments to test them, interpret the results, and clearly communicate my findings. While at NGA, I also supported several U.S. actions on global efforts including the visualization of data locations during the 2012 Hurricane Sandy in Haiti (map data and communication work between NGA and other U.S. entities) and the Rio 2016 Summer Olympics (using Geospatial APIs to create a map showing visualized data of events/locations in Rio). One of my skills is to be able to observe data, apply Geospatial concepts, interpret patterns and trends, and visualize the data in order to find relevance for the customer from the GIS data.

I graduated with a B.F.A. in Graphic Design in 1995, and that was the start of my love for UX. Since then, I had obtained my B.S. in Computer Science in 2019 to further enhance my abilities to design user-friendly interfaces while also creating products that visualize data to address customers’ specific business analytic questions. I believe that a deeper understanding of the data and the analysis of this same data can have a powerful impact and help our clients to connect to a wider global audience. I have always been fascinated by making data available to people to make their lives easier and more fulfilling. 

My B.S. in Computer Science is language agnostic in that the courses emphasized computational thinking in order to solve IT problems; my early courses focused on C++, but I was able to teach myself Java and Python to complete senior projects. I was also taught Software Engineering best practices, and I then applied those same concepts to real projects at NGA. I understood spatial concepts and applied computational thinking in order to make spatial insights accessible to customers, colleagues, and other developers. This supported NGA’s goal of making data visible, accessible, and actionable, deriving value from the datasets. 

I like learning new technologies, and I want to work with a team that also enjoys this same experience. I have been a part of teams that collaborate and support each other, teaching each other how to solve IT issues. I have mentored junior colleagues and have been mentored by seniors; my hope is to be part of a team that helps and supports each other through knowledge sharing. While I have only been at my current employer for a few months, I now realize that I miss the work in mapping and visualized location data. I feel that both my love for maps and sharing knowledge to help people is what motivates me to return to a career in map-making. My end-goal is to eventually find an organization that aligns with these interests while also valuing my skill and 13+ years of experience in providing solutions for customers. 

Throughout my career, I have demonstrated an ability to develop myself professionally, apply what I have learned, and contribute to my employer’s success. My goal is to continue to perform high-quality work by developing my education and skills set and providing excellent support to my colleagues and customers. I feel that my past experiences would make me a good fit for your organization. Thank you for your time and consideration of my application for your firm. I look forward to hearing from you at your convenience. 

Sincerely,
Trang Lam Schraml  
TRANG DOAN LAM SCHRAML
Email: trangdlampf@gmail.com * Cell: 571-205-4202 * Website: www.trangdoanlam.com 

SUMMARY
I am a Software Engineer with 13+ years of experience who is comfortable with every phase of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from concept to design to execution. Having worked at consulting firms, advertising agencies, corporations, the Intelligence Community (IC), and the Department of Defense (DOD) including the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), my experience is diverse. I have worked in the role of a GIS Analyst at NGA, designing User-interfaces (UI) and tools for both commercial and government customers, supporting my team in the SDLC process to deliver high-quality products. I have worked on web-based maps, dashboards, web services, web-based applications, and databases with a focus on analyzing datasets to derive value for the customers.

EDUCATION
•	Oregon State University, 1 Degree: BS in Computer Science, 2019. 15 CS courses (60 credit hours):
Analysis of Data/Algorithms, APIs, C/C++, CSS, Data Models, Database Design Development, Data Mining, Data Visualization and Business Intelligence, Frameworks (Bootstrap, Express, Vue), Git, HTML, JavaScript, Node, Open Source, Python, React, REST, SDK, Software Engineering best practices, SQL, Web Apps, Websites. 
•	University of Texas, 2 Degrees: BFA in Graphic Design (1995). BA in Art (1994). UI/User-experience (UX).
•	C#, Oracle SQL, and JavaScript Courses: 3 Certificates via Udemy, 2019 – 20. 
•	Amazon Web Services (AWS), 3 Courses: AWS Essentials, Simple Storage Service (S3), Identity and Access Management (IAM), 2018. 
•	NGA College (4 Total): 1 Program Management, 1 Computational Thinking, 2 Leadership Courses, 2014 – 17. 
•	Microsoft course via Edx.org: 1 Certificate in Python for Data Science, 2016.
•	Learning Tree: 3 Certificates (2 in Java and 1 in JavaScript), 2015 – 16.

EXPERIENCE
The following is a subset of my 13+ yrs. of experience, focused on Data Analysis and GIS. 
SAIC, May 2021 to Present, Senior Software Engineer.
I am working on a web-based application including the architecture and design to derive value for the customers using APIs, Cloud Services, CSS, Git, HTML, Java, JavaScript, SDK, and SQL. I work with customers to better understand their challenges and needs, analyzing requirements in order to design solutions for the audience to meet end-goals and deadlines. My work encompasses meeting with teams to brainstorm solutions, discuss the logistics of solving IT issues, set deadlines, write clean code and test the features, deliver the solutions, and review best practices. I meet with colleagues and customers to share knowledge and experiences. 

Parsons (and O.G. Systems, which merged w/Parsons), July 2018 to April 2021, Principal Software Engineer. 
With NGA and DIA as customers, I developed spatial GIS tools and features that were incorporated into web-based apps for the customer to better observe and analyze their datasets (e.g. design databases/schemas, data modeling) and derive value from their data. I steered the development of tools and resources to make spatial insights more accessible to customers who are new to spatial concepts. I guided and designed the architecture and development of mapping resources including SDKs and the integration of Open Source libraries into pre-existing apps. I enabled the high-impact use of data and platforms by growing the Open Source Geospatial ecosystem. I engaged with the developer community to develop a deeper understanding of user challenges and needs in demos, strategic planning, and analysis of specific GEOINT questions. I worked on teams with developers, data scientists, and GIS analysts to analyze Big Data, offering solutions that met deadlines while providing high-quality products, websites, mobile apps, and web services. The numerous solutions utilized: ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, Leaflet, Mapbox, Open Street Map, AJAX, APIs, AWS, Cloud Services, CSS, Git, HTML, JavaScript (JS), JQuery, JS libraries and tools (Bootstrap, D3.js, Express, React, Vue), Open Source, Python, SDK, SQL, Tableau. I met with colleagues to share knowledge and experiences including mentoring junior colleagues on the development and analysis of GIS datasets. (4 Performance Awards)

National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, Nov. 2014 – July 2018, Software Developer and GIS Analyst. 
Using business acumen, I have interfaced with stakeholders from different offices at NGA to understand business issues and to formulate the right questions to be asked of the data. I translated these questions into data analysis requirements and collaborated with the Engineering teams to design and implement the right process to produce web-based maps and apps. This includes using quantitative skills, applying analytical methodologies (e.g. data mining), scraping large datasets, and synthesizing the findings, using Open Source libraries and resources (e.g. Planet Labs, ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, Leaflet, GDAL/OGR, Mapbox, Open Street Map, QGIS, Tableau, JavaScript, JSON, Node, Python, SQL). I then demonstrated the apps and briefed the stakeholders and seniors by summarizing the results and findings. I worked on other teams that developed NGA’s spatial data tools, datasets, and processes using several Open Source libraries and resources, empowering customers to observe and analyze the data and to effectively derive value from NGA’s datasets. I was the team lead on several projects that steered the planning of these tools and the business process of effectively using the resources in order to make insights more accessible to developers and data scientists. I assisted in solving IT-related issues for a mapping tool for the DIA that was later demonstrated to the Director of the DIA. Additionally, I was part of several teams that created mapping tools that were included in briefs to the White House and senior executives. (1 Performance Award)

CACI, July 2012 – Oct. 2014, Software Developer & Lead. 
Working with the Analysis office of NGA as the customer, I interfaced with stakeholders to understand business issues, formulated the right questions, and translated these questions into data analysis requirements to produce final products. This process included understanding the requirements and meeting with the teams to scope out the requirements and logistics of scraping large data from diverse sources. I worked to do a preliminary visualization of the data to better understand the relevance of the datasets, working with analysts to fine-tune the analytic methodologies until the final product (e.g. dashboards, dynamic reporting apps) communicated the relevance of the data. Finally, I briefed the interested parties. Besides working on the Analytic side, I worked on teams that developed NGA’s spatial data tools and dashboards, using several Open Source libraries and resources (e.g. ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, satellite imagery, map tiles), empowering customers to observe and analyze the data and to effectively derive value from NGA’s datasets. I was the team lead on projects that steered the planning of these tools to effectively use the resources in order to make insights more accessible to GIS analysts and data scientists. This included using resources (e.g. GIS datasets and web-based apps, Extract Transform Load (ETL), the application of spatial concepts) to better understand the users’ challenges and needs. I developed and managed enterprise-level databases, websites, and web-based applications that ingested, processed, and visualized spatial datasets. My work encompassed NGA’s initiatives for the Cloud–the integration of applications into AWS which included the planning of systems, strategizing, and aligning of these tools. I worked on 30+ tools, applications, and databases, using AJAX, APIs, Bootstrap, CSS, ETL, Git, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Leaflet, Open Source, Python, SQL, SDK, and Web Map Services. (3 Performance Awards)

Booz Allen Hamilton, Aug. 2011 – June 2012, IT Senior Consultant. 
Working with the Analysis office of NGA as the customer, I worked on GIS tools for the customer to effectively observe and analyze their datasets and derive value from their data. I analyzed requirements and recommended the appropriate NGA tools/data to meet customers’ needs; I also analyzed data and recommended solutions to make spatial insights more accessible to customers who are new to spatial concepts. I engaged with the DOD and developer community to develop a deeper understanding of user challenges and needs in order to answer specific GEOINT problem-sets. The web-based applications incorporated the following technologies: ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, satellite imagery, map tiles, APIs, Business Analytics, Big Data, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Open Source, PHP, Web Map Services, SDK, and SQL. I also supported the collaboration between NGA and DOD agencies, making NGA data visible, accessible, and actionable. I authored technical briefs, guides to best practices, and code examples to share my expertise and experience.

TASC, May 2008 – Aug. 2011, Software Developer & Liaison. 
With NGA and the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) as customers, I developed data tools, empowering customers and developers to quickly and more effectively derive value from the datasets. I worked on and managed web-based applications, which supported their goals of offering GIS software, data, and analysis. I steered the development of tools and resources, and I engaged with the DOD and developer community to develop a deeper understanding of user challenges and needs. I shared expertise and experience with the users by authoring technical briefs, guides to best practices, and code examples, using the following methods and resources: Observability, Open Source, AJAX, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, and SQL. I was the Liaison for my contracting team between the government and five DevOps teams, multitasking in order to code review and find a consensus. I provided support for numerous briefs, including several for the NRO and DIA Directors. I collaborated on projects for other commercial clients by providing multimedia and web-based apps. (3 Performance Awards)

SKILLS and KNOWLEDGE 
Focus: Analytic Methodologies, Data Analysis, Observability, Planet tools, ArcGIS, AWS, Data Visualizations, GDAL/OGR, Git, Golang, Google Earth/Maps API, Leaflet, Open Source technology, Problem-solving and Research, Tableau, UI/UX, Web Map Service (WMS), Web Services. (Familiarity: Kubernetes, BigQuery, DataStudio.)
Languages: AJAX, APIs, Bash, CSS/SASS, HTML, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, PHP, Python, SQL, JS frameworks/libraries: Bootstrap, D3.js, Express, React, Vue.
Other: Back-end/Front-end technologies, Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, Engineering best practices, Extract Transform Load (ETL), Linux, Methodologies (Agile, DevOps, Scrum), Node, Platforms (desktop, mobile), Project Management, PWA, REST, SPA, Website Design/Development. 
