September 13, 2021

To whom it may concern:

I am interested in IT Specialist positions at your firm because I feel that my skills and interests align with the person you are looking for. I love to code, to be challenged, and to create innovative and working IT solutions including mapping tools and data visualizations including Knowledge Graphs. I have 13+ years of experience working to make data visible, accessible, and actionable. In my past jobs, I have worked with customers to understand their end-goals, and I want to help customers understand their data through visualized data and mapping tools.

While working at the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) as both a Contractor and Government Civilian for 9+ years, I have worked on diverse projects involving global events using maps, Geospatial APIs, mapping tools from Esri, Mapbox, Google, QGIS, Planet, and databases and datasets that visualized data location. My work on the Analysis Office consisted of using tools from Esri [and other vendors] in order to analyze the requirements, to explore specific tools [and imagery] to evaluate if Esri’s resources could meet specific NGA end-goals, and to work towards integrating the imagery with other available resources and tools. I have worked on mapping tools and web-based apps that have been produced for the White House and senior executives. While at NGA and O.G. Systems, I have worked on knowledge graphs and databases as part of their efforts to define the relationships between datasets and databases, including a project that was briefed to the Director of NGA using a JavaScript Open Source library, D3.js. I have spent 8+ years analyzing datasets to understand the patterns and relevance of data, especially map data. 

My experience includes, but is not limited to, extraction, transformation and loading of data (ETL), analyzing datasets and requirements, designing and developing IT solutions, and delivering working products in a timely manner. I have used the analytical approach to develop strong hypotheses, design experiments to test them, interpret the results, and clearly communicate my findings. While at NGA, I also supported several U.S. actions on global efforts including the visualization of data locations during the 2012 Hurricane Sandy in Haiti (map data and communication work between NGA and other U.S. entities) and the Rio 2016 Summer Olympics (map showing visualized data of events/locations in Rio) using mapping tools and Geospatial APIs. 

I graduated with a B.F.A. in Graphic Design in 1995, and that was the start of my love for UX and Web Design. Since then, I had obtained my B.S. in Computer Science in 2019 to further enhance my abilities to design user-friendly interfaces while also creating products that visualize data to address customers’ specific business analytic questions. I believe that a deeper understanding of the data and the analysis of this same data can have a powerful impact and help our clients to connect to a wider global audience. My work includes web-based apps with 12K+ accounts with corresponding high trafficked services.

My B.S. in Computer Science is language agnostic in that the courses emphasized computational thinking in order to solve IT problems. In my junior courses, I wrote C++ and was able to apply computational thinking to write Python for apps at NGA. I was taught Software Engineering best practices, and I then applied those same concepts to working projects at NGA. I understood spatial concepts and applied the same thinking in order to make spatial insights accessible to customers, colleagues, and other developers. This supported NGA’s goal of making data visible, accessible, and actionable, deriving value from the datasets. Because writing technical papers was a part of my studies, this supported my efforts to write white papers, blog posts, guides to best practices, and code examples and to grow NGA’s Geospatial ecosystem. My studies supported my work, and I was a team lead at NGA which included mentoring juniors and developers on GIS topics.

I like learning new technologies, and I want to work with a team that also enjoys this same experience. I have been a part of teams that collaborate and support each other, teaching each other how to solve IT issues. My hope is to be part of a team that helps and supports each other through knowledge sharing. While I have only been at my current employer for a few months, I now realize that I miss the work in mapping and visualized location data. My end-goal is to eventually find an organization that aligns with these interests while also valuing my skill and 13+ years of experience in providing solutions for customers who need Visualization of their Big Data. Due to the diversity of work with numerous customers, I feel that I can balance many concerns and develop closer working relationships with colleagues and customers to meet your end-goals. 

Throughout my career, I have demonstrated an ability to develop myself professionally, apply what I have learned, and contribute to my employer’s success. My goal is to continue to perform high-quality work by developing my education and skills set and providing excellent support to my colleagues and customers. I feel that my past experiences would make me a good fit for your organization. Thank you for your time and consideration of my application for your firm. I look forward to hearing from you at your convenience. 

Sincerely,
Trang Lam Schraml

TRANG DOAN LAM SCHRAML
Email: trangdlampf@gmail.com * Cell: 571-205-4202 * Website: www.trangdoanlam.com 

SUMMARY
I am a Web-based Developer with 13+ years of experience who is comfortable with every phase of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) from concept to design to execution. Having worked at consulting firms, advertising agencies, corporations, the Intelligence Community (IC), and the Department of Defense (DOD) including the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA), my experience is diverse. I have designed User-interfaces (UI) and tools for both commercial and government customers, supporting my team in the SDLC process to deliver high-quality products. I have worked on web-based maps, websites, web services, web-based applications, databases, and frameworks with a focus on analyzing datasets to derive value for the customers.

EDUCATION
•	Oregon State University, 1 Degree: BS in Computer Science, 2019. 15 CS courses (60 credit hours):
Analysis of Data/Algorithms, APIs, C/C++, CSS, Data Visualization and Business Intelligence, Frameworks (Bootstrap, Express, Vue), Git, HTML, JavaScript, NodeJS, Open Source, Python, ReactJS, REST, SDK, Software Engineering best practices, SQL, TypeScript, Web Apps/Components/Services, Websites. 
•	University of Texas, 2 Degrees: BFA in Graphic Design (1995). BA in Art (1994). UI/User-experience (UX).
•	C#, Oracle SQL, and JavaScript Courses: 3 Certificates via Udemy, 2019 – 20. 
•	Amazon Web Services (AWS), 3 Courses: AWS Essentials, Simple Storage Service (S3), Identity and Access Management (IAM), 2018. 
•	NGA College (4 Total): 1 Program Management, 1 Computational Thinking, 2 Leadership Courses, 2014 – 17. 
•	Microsoft course via Edx.org: 1 Certificate in Python for Data Science, 2016.
•	Learning Tree: 3 Certificates (2 in Java and 1 in JavaScript), 2015 – 16.

EXPERIENCE
The following is a subset of my 13+ yrs. of experience, focused on Web Development and GIS. 

SAIC, May 2021 to Present, Senior Software Engineer.
I am working on a web-based application including the architecture and design to derive value for the customers using APIs, AWS, CSS, Git, HTML, Java, JavaScript, SDK, and SQL. I work with customers to better understand their challenges and needs, analyzing requirements in order to design solutions for the audience to meet end-goals and deadlines. My work encompasses meeting with teams to brainstorm solutions, discuss the logistics of solving IT issues, set deadlines, write clean code and test the features, deliver the solutions, and review best practices. I meet with colleagues and customers to share knowledge and experiences. 

Parsons (and O.G. Systems, which merged w/Parsons), July 2018 to April 2021, Principal Software Engineer. 
With NGA and DIA as customers, I developed spatial GIS tools and features that were incorporated into web-based apps for the customer to better observe and analyze their datasets and derive value from their data. I steered the development of tools and resources to make spatial insights more accessible to customers who are new to spatial concepts. I guided and designed the architecture and development of mapping resources including SDKs and the integration of Open Source libraries into pre-existing apps. I enabled the high-impact use of data and platforms by growing the Open Source Geospatial ecosystem. I engaged with the developer community to develop a deeper understanding of user challenges and needs in demos, strategic planning, and analysis of specific GEOINT questions. I wrote guides to best practices, How-To documents, and code examples for re-use. I worked on teams with developers, data scientists, and GIS analysts to analyze Big Data, offering solutions that met deadlines while providing high-quality products, websites, mobile apps, and web services. The numerous solutions utilized: ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, Leaflet, Mapbox, Open Street Map, AJAX, APIs, AWS, CSS, Git, HTML, JavaScript (JS), JQuery, JS libraries and tools (Bootstrap, D3.js, Express, React, Vue), Open Source, Python, SDK, and SQL. I met with colleagues and customers to share knowledge and experiences including mentoring junior colleagues on the development and analysis of GIS datasets. (4 Performance Awards)

National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, Nov. 2014 – July 2018, Software Developer and GIS Analyst. 
I worked on teams that developed NGA’s spatial data tools using several open source libraries and resources (e.g. Planet Labs, ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, Leaflet, GDAL/OGR, Mapbox, Open Street Map, QGIS), empowering customers to observe and analyze the data and to effectively derive value from NGA’s datasets. I was the team lead on several projects that steered the planning of these tools and the business process of effectively using the resources in order to make insights more accessible to developers and data scientists. This included using the following methods and resources (e.g. GIS datasets and web-based apps, Observability, Python for Extract Transform Load (ETL), analysis of the data, the application of spatial concepts, and growing the Open Source Geospatial ecosystem) to better understand the users’ challenges and needs. I actively engaged with NGA’s developer community by volunteering at demos and sharing my code with sister-teams. I assisted in solving IT-related issues for a mapping tool for the DIA that was later demonstrated to the Director of the DIA. Additionally, I was part of several teams that created mapping tools that were included in briefs to the White House and senior executives. I met with colleagues and customers to share knowledge and experiences. I also authored technical blog posts, white papers, guides to best practices, and code examples. I participated in the NGA mentoring program by training and mentoring junior colleagues on the use of GIS tools and resources, including the sharing of code and the analysis of relevant GIS data. (1 Performance Award)

CACI, July 2012 – Oct. 2014, Software Developer & Lead. 
With NGA as the customer, I worked on teams that developed NGA’s spatial data tools using several Open Source libraries and resources (e.g. ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, satellite imagery, map tiles), empowering customers to observe and analyze the data and to effectively derive value from NGA’s datasets. I was the team lead on projects that steered the planning of these tools to effectively use the resources in order to make insights more accessible to GIS analysts and data scientists. This included using resources (e.g. GIS datasets and web-based apps, Python for Extract Transform Load (ETL), analysis of the data, the application of spatial concepts, and growing the Open Source Geospatial ecosystem) to better understand the users’ challenges and needs. I developed and managed enterprise-level databases, websites, and web-based applications that ingested, processed, and visualized spatial datasets. My work encompassed NGA’s initiatives for the Cloud–the integration of applications into AWS which included the planning of systems, strategizing, and aligning of these tools. I was the Systems Administrator for 30+ tools, applications, and databases. I was also the Team Lead and Programmer on other projects where our team moved 50+ applications to a new OS. The move and deployment were successful, including the PKI database accessed by 8K+ personnel and had 10K+ accounts. I also created 100+ web-based tools using AJAX, APIs, Bootstrap, CSS, ETL, Git, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Leaflet, Open Source, Python, SQL, SDK, and Web Map Services. I authored technical blog posts, guides to best practices, and code examples. I trained and mentored junior colleagues on the use of GIS tools and resources, including the sharing of code and the analysis of relevant GIS data. (3 Performance Awards)

Booz Allen Hamilton, Aug. 2011 – June 2012, IT Senior Consultant. 
With NGA as the customer, I worked on GIS tools for the customer to effectively observe and analyze their datasets and derive value from their data. I analyzed data and recommended solutions to make spatial insights more accessible to customers who are new to spatial concepts. I engaged with the DOD and developer community to develop a deeper understanding of user challenges and needs in order to answer specific GEOINT problem-sets. The web-based applications incorporated the following technologies: ArcGIS, Google Earth/Maps API, satellite imagery, map tiles, APIs, Business Analytics, Big Data, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, Open Source, PHP, Web Map Services, SDK, and SQL. I also supported the collaboration between NGA and DOD agencies, making NGA data visible, accessible, and actionable. I authored technical briefs, guides to best practices, and code examples to share my expertise and experience.

TASC, May 2008 – Aug. 2011, Software Developer & Liaison. 
With NGA and the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) as customers, I developed data tools, empowering customers and developers to quickly and more effectively derive value from the datasets. I worked on and managed web-based applications, which supported their goals of offering GIS software, data, and analysis. I steered the development of tools and resources, and I engaged with the DOD and developer community to develop a deeper understanding of user challenges and needs. I shared expertise and experience with the users by authoring technical briefs, guides to best practices, and code examples, using the following methods and resources: Observability, Open Source, AJAX, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, and SQL. I was the Liaison for my contracting team between the government and five DevOps teams, multitasking in order to code review and find a consensus. I provided support for numerous briefs, including several for the NRO and DIA Directors. I collaborated on projects for other commercial clients by providing multimedia and web-based apps. (3 Performance Awards)

SKILLS and KNOWLEDGE 
Focus: Observability and Data Analysis, Planet tools, ArcGIS, AWS, Data Visualizations, GDAL/OGR, Git, Golang, Google Earth/Maps API, Leaflet, Node, Open Source technology, Problem-solving and Research, UI/UX, Website Design/Development, Web Map Service (WMS), Web Services. (Familiarity: Kubernetes, BigQuery.)
Languages: AJAX, APIs, Bash, CSS/SASS, HTML, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, PHP, Python, SQL, JS frameworks/libraries: Bootstrap, D3.js, Express, React, Vue.
Other: Back-end/Front-end technologies, Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, Engineering best practices, Extract Transform Load (ETL), Linux, Methodologies (Agile, DevOps, Scrum), Platforms (desktop, mobile), Project Management, PWA, REST, SPA, Tableau, Behavior and Test Driven Development, Unit Testing.
