TRANG DOAN LAM SCHRAML
Email: trangdlampf@gmail.com * Cell: 571-205-4202 * Website: www.trangdoanlam.com 

SUMMARY
I am a Front-end Developer with 10+ years of experience who is comfortable with every phase of the Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)–both front-end and back-end–from concept to design to execution. Having worked at consulting firms, advertising agencies, corporations, the Intelligence Community (IC), and the Department of Defense (DOD), my experience is diverse. I have designed User-interfaces (UI) and tools for both commercial and government customers, supporting my team in the SDLC process to deliver high-quality products. I have worked on websites, web services, web-based applications, databases, and frameworks with a focus on supporting the customers through great design work and software deliverables.

EDUCATION
•	Oregon State University, 1 Degree: BS in Computer Science, 2019. 15 CS courses (60 credit hours):
User-interface, User-experiences, Data Visualization and Business Intelligence, Analysis, APIs, C/C++, CSS, Frameworks (Bootstrap, Express.js, Vue.js), Git/GitHub, HTML, Java, JavaScript, Open source, SQL, Node, Package Managers (NPM), PHP, Python, React.js and frameworks, REST APIs, Testing [Behavior and Test Driven Development (BDD, TDD), Unit Testing], Web Apps, Website methodologies. 
•	University of Texas, 2 Degrees: BFA in Graphic Design (1995). BA in Art (1994). UI/User-experience (UX).
•	C#, Oracle SQL, and JavaScript Courses: 3 Certificates via Udemy, 2019 – 20. 
•	Amazon Web Services (AWS), 3 Courses: AWS Essentials, Simple Storage Service (S3), Identity and Access Management (IAM), 2018. 
•	NGA College (4 Total): 1 Program Management, 1 Computational Thinking, 2 Leadership Courses, 2014 – 17. 
•	Microsoft course via Edx.org: 1 Certificate in Python for Data Science, 2016.
•	Learning Tree: 3 Certificates (2 in Java and 1 in JavaScript), 2015 – 16.

EXPERIENCE
The following is a subset of my 10+ yrs. of experience, focused on Software Engineering and UX.    

SAIC, May 2021 to Present, Senior Software Engineer.
I am working on a web-based application with features that integrate data for Business Analytic (BA) goals using AWS, CSS, Git/GitHub, HTML, Java, JavaScript, REST APIs, SPA, SQL, and Test Driven Development. I analyze requirements in order to design solutions to improve UX for the audience to meet end-goals and deadlines in support of the customers’ needs. My work encompasses meeting with teams to brainstorm solutions, discuss the logistics of solving the IT issues, set deadlines, write clean code and test the features, deliver the solutions, and review best practices. I meet with colleagues and customers to share knowledge and experiences.  

Parsons (and O.G. Systems, which merged w/Parsons), July 2018 to April 2021, Principal Software Engineer. 
I communicated effectively and collaborated with colleagues on the SDLC to create Data Visualizations and dashboards by collecting requirements, designing UI to improve UX and brand recognition, developing features/ tools using BDD, analyzing data and designing solutions, multitasking and managing projects, and integrating the tools that utilizes the concepts of efficiency, scalability, and maintainability. I worked on apps which included Business Analytic features through Data Visualizations, reaching global audiences. My work included analyzing problem, offering solutions, and writing clean code that met deadlines while providing high-quality products, websites, mobile apps, and web services. The numerous solutions included: AJAX, APIs, AWS, CSS/SASS, Git/GitHub, HTML, JavaScript (JS) & ES6, JQuery, JS frameworks and libraries (Bootstrap, D3.js, Express.js, .NET, React.js and frameworks, Vue.js), JSON, Node, Open source, Package Manager (NPM, Webpack, Yarn), Python, REST APIs, SPA, and SQL. I participated in technical discussions and code reviews; I met with colleagues and customers to share knowledge and experiences. (4 Performance Awards) 
 
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, Nov. 2014 – July 2018, Software Developer. 
Working on the SDLC in an Agile DevOps environment, I was a self-starter and gained the customers’ trust by delivering timely results and customer satisfaction through successful products and brand recognition [within DOD and IC] focused on Data Visualization for Business Intelligence (BI) reasons. I created Dashboards that allowed users to better understand and interpret their Big Data to meet specific end-goals. I collected requirements, planned and designed systems, designed user experiences, developed features/tools by writing clean code, and integrated these tools on multiple systems (desktop and mobile on AWS). I used the following technologies: AJAX, APIs, AWS, CSS/SASS, Front-end/Backend technologies, Git/GitHub, HTML, Java, JavaScript & ES6, JQuery, JSON, Node, Open source, Package Manager (NPM, Webpack), PHP, Python, React.js and frameworks, REST APIs, SPA, SQL, Web Services, and Web Map Services (WMS). The automated solutions used the concepts of modular programming, scalability, and maintainability. In order to meet the constraints of time and finances, I had to apply creativity, ingenuity, and resourcefulness. I communicated effectively and problem-solved IT-related issues with other agencies in DOD and IC. Working as a Team Lead, I supervised personnel, collaborated cross-agency with both domestic and international customers and responded to customers to analyze and solve IT problem sets. I participated in technical discussions and code reviews; I met with colleagues and customers to share knowledge and experiences. (1 Performance Award)

CACI, July 2012 – Oct. 2014, Software Developer & Lead. 
Working on the SDLC in an Agile DevOps environment, I gained the customers’ trust by delivering timely results and customer satisfaction through successful and high-quality products [e.g. Data Visualizations] and services [including brand recognition within DOD and IC] by collecting requirements, designing and developing features, architectures, methodologies, and tools [using BDD and Unit Testing], and integrating these new tools that utilize the concepts of modular programming, scalability, and maintainability. I developed and managed enterprise-level databases, websites, and web-based applications that ingested, processed, and visualized Big Data (e.g. dashboards, charts, maps). My work encompassed NGA’s initiatives for the Cloud–specifically my work on the integration of applications into AWS which included the planning of systems, strategizing, and aligning of these tools. I was the Systems Administrator for 30+ tools, applications, and databases. I was also the Team Lead and Programmer on other projects where our team moved 50+ applications to a new OS. The move and deployment were successful, including the PKI database accessed by 8K+ personnel and had 10K+ accounts. I also created 100+ web-based tools that were integrated into frameworks using AJAX, APIs, Bootstrap, CSS, Front-end/Backend technologies, Git/GitHub, HTML, Java, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Leaflet, Open source, PHP, Python, REST APIs, SharePoint, SQL, and Web Services. I participated in technical discussions and code reviews; I have mentored junior colleagues to share knowledge and experiences. (3 Performance Awards)

Booz Allen Hamilton, Aug. 2011 – June 2012, IT Senior Consultant. 
Working in an Agile DevOps environment, I researched and analyzed requirements, recommended solutions, and designed tools, methodologies, and architectures. I worked on Data Visualizations and web-based apps to facilitate collaboration across the agency by informing the workforce and colleagues (internal and external to NGA) about the enterprise-level automated capabilities of GEOINT applications to improve the User-experience of the audience, which supported the Director’s goals of [brand] recognition within the DOD and IC. The web-based applications used the following technologies: AJAX, APIs, ArcGIS, Bash, Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, Big Data, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, Linux, Open source, PHP, Python, REST APIs, Web Services, and SQL. I also supported the communication and collaboration between NGA and DOD agencies for work on NGA’s Cloud. I worked on various commercial projects for Booz that included Data Visualizations and worked with colleagues to share knowledge and experiences. 

TASC, May 2008 – Aug. 2011, Software Developer & Liaison. 
Working on the SDLC in an Agile DevOps environment, I worked on and managed web-based applications for commercial and government clients including Data Visualizations and web-based apps, which improved the customers’ User-experiences and supported their efforts to understand their Big Data. I designed systems and architectures, deploying websites and automated capabilities to meet requirements, aggressive goals, and tight deadlines. This included analyzing requirements, configuring and integrating of web-based apps and methodologies, deploying and maintaining tools, testing, and working with databases and tools using the following technologies: AJAX, Client/Server side, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, JSON, PHP, REST, and SQL). I was the Liaison for my contracting team between the government and five DevOps teams, multitasking in order to code review and find a consensus. I provided support for numerous briefs, including several for the NRO Director and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). I collaborated on projects for NGA, CIA, and other commercial clients by providing multimedia and web-based apps. (3 Performance Awards)

SKILLS and KNOWLEDGE
Technologies: AWS, Back-end/Front-end technologies, Client/Server Side, Data Visualizations, Git/GitHub, Methodologies (Agile, DevOps, Scrum), Node, Open-source technology, Package Manager (NPM, Webpack, Yarn), Problem-solving and Research, PWA, REST APIs, SPA, UI/UX, Website Design/Development, Web Services. 
Languages: AJAX, APIs, Bash, CSS/SASS, HTML, Java, JavaScript & ES6, JQuery, JSON, PHP, Python, SQL, JS frameworks/libraries: Bootstrap, D3.js, Express.js, Google Charts/APIs, React.js, Vue.js.
Other: Business Analytics, Business Intelligence, Engineering best practices, Extract Transform Load (ETL), Leaflet, Linux, Platforms (desktop, mobile), Project Management, Tableau, Behavior and Test Driven Development, Unit Testing, WMS. 
